feat(desktop-modeler): add connection manager docs (#7602)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/components/modeler/desktop-modeler/connect-to-camunda-8.md

---
id: connect-to-camunda-8
title: Connect to Camunda 8
description: "Setup a connection from Desktop Modeler to Camunda 8 Orchestration Clusters."
---

Desktop Modeler can directly connect to Camunda 8 Orchestration Clusters. An active connection is required to deploy a diagram, start a process instance, or test a task. Follow the steps below to connect to **Camunda 8 SaaS**. To connect to a local installation, visit the [Camunda 8 Self-Managed guide](../../../self-managed/components/modeler/desktop-modeler/connect-to-self-managed.md).

1. Click on the **connection manager**. For new installations, this will show `No connection`. If you already selected a connection before, it will show the name of that connection.

   ![Connection manager button](./img/connection-selector-offline.png)

> 2. To add a new connection you need to go into settings. You can either click **Manage connections** or open the settings directly (`Cmd/Ctrl + ,`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. To add a new connection, go to settings. You can either open the connection manager and click **Manage connections**, or open the settings directly (`Cmd/Ctrl + ,`).
```

>    By default a local c8run connection is already setup. If you used Desktop Modeler before to deploy a diagram, that connection will also be available (`Unnamed Connection`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   By default, a local c8run connection is already set up. If you have previously used Desktop Modeler to deploy diagrams, those connections will also be available under `Unnamed Connection`.
```
Not sure if my suggestion is accurate; does it only save one previous connection?

   ![Connection manager is opened](./img/connection-selector-offline-open.png)

3. Click on **Add connection**

>    ![Connection manager showing add button](./img/connection-manager-add.png)

Reviewer: Is connection manager the thing in the footer or the thing in settings? I'm a bit confused. Anyway, if it's the thing in the footer, then maybe this could be "Connection settings showing **Add connection** button".

4. Input a `name`, the `Cluster URL`, and the credentials (`Client ID`, `Client secret`) of your [API client](../../console/manage-clusters/manage-api-clients.md)

   ![Connection manager new connection added](./img/connection-manager-new-connection-loading.png)

   The connection is automatically validated.

>    If you have issues connecting to the cluster have a look at the [troubleshooting page](./troubleshooting.md#debug-zeebe-connection-issues).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If you have issues connecting to the cluster, see the [troubleshooting page](./troubleshooting.md#debug-zeebe-connection-issues).
```

Reviewer: ❌ , mostly because "have a look" is slightly informal.

   ![Connection manager showing connection error](./img/connection-manager-new-connection-error.png)

   If the connection is established successfully, you can leave the settings and go back to the **connection manager** where your new connection is now available.

   ![Connection manager showing connection success](./img/connection-manager-new-connection-success.png)

> 5. Select the connection you just created to use it for [deployment](./deploy-diagram.md) or other tools like [task testing](./task-testing.md) or [starting a new process instance](./start-instance.md).

Author: atm i think most users a used to deploy and start instance with task testing being the latest addition. i would use the same order as the buttons in the modeler then: deploy, start instance, task testing

   ![New connection selected in connection manager](./img/connection-selector-new-connection.png)
   :::note

>    As a next step, [deploy your first diagram](./deploy-diagram.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   As a next step, [deploy your diagram](./deploy-diagram.md).
```
The SM page leaves out "first", which I think is better, since earlier we assume they may have set up a connection before.

---
id: connect-to-camunda-8
title: Connect to Camunda 8
description: "Setup a connection from Desktop Modeler to Camunda 8 Orchestration Clusters."
---

Desktop Modeler can directly connect to Camunda 8 Orchestration Clusters. Follow the steps below to connect to **Camunda 8 SaaS**. To connect to a local installation, visit the [Camunda 8 Self-Managed guide](../../../self-managed/components/modeler/desktop-modeler/connect-to-self-managed.md).

> 1. Click on the **Connection Selector**. For new installations, this will show `No connection`. If you already selected a connection before, it will show the name of that connection.

Author: adjusted it to `connection manager` (all lowercase)

> 1. Click on the **Connection Selector**. For new installations, this will show `No connection`. If you already selected a connection before, it will show the name of that connection.

Author: `If the connection is established successfully, you can leave the settings and go back to the **connection manager** where your new connection is now available.`

maybe just selector? `If the connection is established successfully, you can leave the settings and go back to the selector where your new connection is now available.`

   ![Connection selector button](./img/connection-selector-offline.png)

2. To add a new connection you need to go into settings. You can either click **Manage connections** or open the settings directly (`Cmd/Ctrl + ,`)

   By default a local c8run connection is already setup. If you used Desktop Modeler before to deploy a diagram, that connection will also be available (`Unnamed Connection`).

>    ![Connection selector open](./img/connection-selector-offline-open.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ![Connection manager open](./img/connection-selector-offline-open.png)
```

3. Click on **Add connection**

   ![Connection manager add](./img/connection-manager-add.png)

4. Input a `name`, the `Cluster URL`, and the credentials (`Client ID`, `Client secret`) of your [API client](../../console/manage-clusters/manage-api-clients.md)

   ![Connection manager New Connection](./img/connection-manager-new-connection-loading.png)

   The connection is automatically validated.
   If you have issues connecting to the cluster have a look at the [troubleshooting page](./troubleshooting.md#debug-zeebe-connection-issues).

>    ![Connection Manager Error](./img/connection-manager-new-connection-error.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ![Connection manager error](./img/connection-manager-new-connection-error.png)
```

   If the connection is established successfully, you can leave the settings and go back to the **Connection Selector** where your new connection is now available.

   ![Connection Manager Success](./img/connection-manager-new-connection-success.png)

5. Select the connection you just created to use it for [deployment](./deploy-diagram.md) or other tools like [task testing](./task-testing.md) or [starting a new process instance](./start-instance.md).

>    ![Connection Selector new connection selected](./img/connection-selector-new-connection.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ![New connection selected in connection manager](./img/connection-selector-new-connection.png)
```
